-President Trump is becoming
more lawless amid
a power grab at the
Justice Department
and in a recount in Florida.
For more on this,
it's time for "A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]
Trump has always seen the law
not as a constraint on his power
but as a tool to protect
and enrich himself.
Today, for example, he attacked
Democrats for saying they'll
investigate him now
that they control the house
tweeting, "The prospect of
Presidential Harassment
by the Dems is causing the
Stock Market big headaches!"
And last week he said
that if Democrats in the house
use their power
to investigate him,
he'll just turn around
and investigate them.
-Are you offering an "My way
or highway" scenario
to the Democrats?
-No.
-You're saying that...
-Negotiation. Not at all.
...if they start
investigating you,
that you can play that game
and investigate them.
-Better than them.
-Can you compartmentalize --
-And I think I know more --
And I think I know more
than they know.
-No.
[ Laughter ]
No, you don't.
Trump's like a Gotham City
gangster who thinks he can
outsmart Batman and ends up
dangling from a gargoyle.
"Bad news Batman,
I also have a utility belt --
Oh, son of a bitch!
Oh.
Oh, I'm upside down again.
Oh, that back fired."
Grifters always think they can
outsmart everyone else,
and that's what Trump is --
a grifter
who surrounds himself
with other grifters.
Right now as we speak,
Trump is being sued
in Federal Court
for defrauding investors.
He just appointed an acting
Attorney General who advised
a firm accused
of scamming customers.
And his candidate for Senate
in Florida,
the state's governor,
was involved in one
of the largest Medicare frauds
in American history.
-President Trump,
three of his adult children
and their company are now facing
a new lawsuit over allegedly
conning consumers
in a "systematic fraud
and pattern of racketeer."
-Matt Whitaker, the now acting
Attorney General
after Jeff Sessions was fired,
he is now linked
to a company referred to
as scam.
-Rick Scott earned his fortune
in healthcare administration.
He served as the CEO of the
Colombia Hospital Corporation.
Scott resigned in 1997 amidst
a fraud scandal encompassing
Medicare, Medicaid,
and other Federal Programs.
-Man, if these guys
weren't in politics,
they'd be selling fake Rolexes
on the sidewalk in Times Square.
"Of course it's a real Rolex.
The extra X is for extreme."
[ Laughter and applause ]
Trump's entire career has been
built on scamming people.
In fact, even in the closing
weeks of the presidential
campaign, Trump was personally
involved in a scheme to break
campaign finance law
by paying hush money to hide
his alleged affairs,
as we learned on Friday.
-"The Wall Street Journal"
reporting federal prosecutors
have evidence that Donald Trump
played a central role
in paying off women during
the 2016 campaign
who claimed they had
affairs with him.
-"The Wall Street Journal"
reporting that during
the 2016 campaign Donald Trump
closely coordinated
with American Media Inc.
chairman David Pecker to silence
two women who claimed they had
affairs with Trump.
-You know, there's a lot
that's hard to believe
about the Trump era,
but, one thing I will never
get over is the fact that
the President asked a friend
to help him cover up an affair
with a Playboy model
and that friend's last name
was literally Pecker.
[ Laughter and applause ]
It's like the worst screen play
in a freshman
creative writing class.
"I need a name for the guy
who covers up the sex stuff.
Oh, I know.
I'll call him Rex Penis."
[ Laughter ]
So prosecutors now have evidence
that Trump personally violated
election law during
a presidential campaign,
which makes it pretty convenient
that he just installed
an acting Attorney General
Matt Whitaker
who is very much a Trump
loyalist and much like Trump,
Whitaker also has a history
with fraud.
-Whitaker later joined
the advisory board
and was first paid
in October 2014
for a company that has since
been shut down and slapped
with a $26 million fine
by Federal Authorities.
-World Patent Marketing billed
itself as helping investors
secure patents,
and Whitaker was hands on.
-It's a unique design
that's going to help...
-Showcasing a hot tub invention
in this post from the company.
-That's right, the new Attorney
General of the United States
was involved in a scam
selling hot tubs.
Not only does this
administration
keep adding grifters,
the scams keep getting worse.
[ Laughter ]
Our next Secretary of State
is going to be a guy who forges
signatures based on baseballs.
[ Laughter ]
[ Applause ]
How did Trump --
how did Trump pick this guy?
Well, Whitaker basically
auditioned for the role
by going on TV and criticizing
the Russia investigation.
In fact, at one point Whitaker,
who now oversees
the Russia investigation,
said the infamous meeting
Donald Trump Jr.
had with the Russians
at Trump Tower in 2016,
totally fine.
-If you have somebody that you
trust that is saying you need
to meet with this individual
because they have information
about your opponent,
you would take that meeting.
You certainly want to have
any advantage
and any legal advantage you can,
and one of those main advantages
is to know what your opponent
is either --
You know, I mean, all sorts of
things that could be happening.
And Hillary Clinton, there was
so much smoke around her.
-There was smoke around her?
Trump has so much smoke around
him he looks like he's been
hanging out on Willie Nelson's
tour bus.
[ Laughter ]
So on Friday, reporters asked
Trump if he had picked Whitaker
because he saw him
on TV attacking
the Russia investigation,
and Trump made it sound like
he'd never even met the guy.
-What do you think of all this
criticism of Matt Whitaker
and the calls to recuse himself
considering what said --
-Well, Matt Whitaker,
I don't know Matt Whitaker.
-So there you go.
Trump says there's
no conflict of interest,
because he doesn't know
Matt Whitaker.
And if Trump says something,
then you know
he also said the exact opposite.
-In "The Washington Post"
this morning,
it says that you talked
to the Attorney General's
chief of staff about replacing
the Attorney General.
Apparently according
to the post,
you talked to Matthew Whitaker.
Anything to that story?
-Well, I never talk about that,
but I can tell you
Matt Whitaker is a great guy.
I mean, I know Matt Whitaker.
-Of course he knows him.
If anyone looks like they should
be friends with Trump,
its poor man's Telly Savalas
over here.
And on top of everything else,
Whitaker's appointment itself
might be illegal.
Whitaker wasn't next in line
at the Justice Department,
and he's never been confirmed
by the Senate.
Last week two prominent lawyers
wrote an op-ed arguing
that Whitaker's appointment
was unconstitutional.
And one of those lawyers
has a personal connection
to the White House.
-Kellyanne Conway's own husband,
George Conway,
a self-described conservative
co-authored an op-ed in
"The New York times," calling
Whitaker's appointment
as acting AG unconstitutional,
illegal, and invalid.
-That's right, one of the
authors of the op-ed
was George Conway,
the husband
of White House counselor
Kellyanne Conway.
And this isn't even
the first time
he's criticized Trump in public.
What's that marriage like?
"Honey,
can you pass the chicken?"
"There is no chicken."
"I'm looking right
at the chicken."
"That's not chicken,
that's alternative meatloaf."
[ Laughter ]
Trump was asked --
[ Cheers and applause ]
Trump was asked on Friday
about George Conway's
criticism, and he decided
to attack the husband
of one of his closest advisers.
-Was Kellyanne's husband wrong?
-Who?
-Kellyanne's husband
wrote the --
-You mean -- you mean --
you mean, Mr. Kellyanne Conway?
Why don't you ask Kellyanne
that question, all right?
She might -- she might know him
better than me.
I really don't know the guy.
-Okay, so he definitely
knows the guy.
[ Laughter ]
But Trump, of course,
is no expert in marriage.
In fact, after that talk
with reporters,
Trump started to walk away
to get on his helicopter
and forgot that he left his wife
standing by herself off camera.
-I'll see you in Europe.
[ Laughter ]
[ Applause ]
-"No. No, you.
No, that's the polite way
to do it.
You take a big bendy arc.
In olden times that was
considered chivalrous.
Goodbye, everybody.
Goodbye."
[ Laughter ]
[ Cheers and applause ]
I mean, at least -- at least
he went back for her.
Melania, one.
Umbrella, zero.
[ Laughter ]
It's obvious that Trump wants
Whitaker to rein in
the Russia probe and the special
counsel, Robert Mueller.
But when he was asked
about Mueller on Friday,
Trump claimed he wasn't even
thinking about it.
-[ Indistinct talking ]
-I haven't ruled out anything.
I haven't even thought about it.
I'm thinking about the world.
-The world?
[ Scoffs ] Globalist.
You should be thinking about
America first.
[ Laughter ]
Of course there is --
there is one other thing
on Trump's mind,
and that's the recount
in Florida
where the GOP candidates
for Governor and Senate
Ron DeSantis and Rick Scott
are narrowly leading.
After Election Day,
officials were still counting
mail ballots
and provisional ballots,
which is totally normal
and happens in every election.
But Trump and Scott have been
lying and spreading baseless
conspiracy theories about
nonexistent voter fraud.
-Every Floridian should be
concerned there may be rampant
fraud happening in Palm Beach
and Broward County.
-Any evidence of voter fraud?
-Wait.
Well, you take a look
at the past.
Take a look at the past.
And all of a sudden
they're finding votes?
You mean after the election
-Yeah, that's when you
find votes,
after people cast them.
"I planted seeds in my garden,
and two weeks later
I'm finding flowers?
Fraud."
And then today Trump tweeted
that the vote counting
should just stop, because his
candidates are ahead.
-"The Florida election should
be called in favor of Rick Scott
and Ron DeSantis in that large
number of new ballots
showed up out of nowhere,
and many ballots
are missing or forged.
An honest vote count
is no longer
possible-ballots
massively infected.
Must go with Election Night!"
-Hey man, you don't get
to just stop counting the votes,
because you're ahead.
Trump's like a guy who starts
a game of horse,
scores one basket,
and says,
"Actually, we were playing H-,
so I win.
[ Laughter ]
[ Applause ]
I'm the winner, you're --"
Trump was then asked
if he had any evidence
that there was fraud
happening in Florida.
And since there is no evidence,
he had no answer.
-You notice the votes
never go the other way?
They hire lawyers,
and the votes don't ever
seem to go the Republican way.
-Do you have evidence of fraud?
-Although I hear --
Well, I don't know, you tell me.
-All right. We'll tell you.
No.
You don't have evidence
of fraud in Florida.
In fact, I'd be shocked
if you even knew
which state Florida was.
If you asked him to describe it,
he'd probably say it's the one
that's shaped like a...
-Pecker.
-So, Trump doesn't have any
evidence of voter fraud,
but don't worry, he's putting
his best people on it.
-"As soon as Democrats sent
their best Election stealing
lawyer, Marc Elias,
to Broward County
they miraculously started
finding Democrat votes.
Don't worry, Florida --
I am sending much better lawyers
to expose the FRAUD!"
-Oh, you're going to send
your lawyers
to look at ballots
like this guy?
[ Laughter ]
I'm not sure he's your best bet.
I mean, look at him.
He looks like he just got
kicked in the...
-Pecker.
-So...
[ Laughter ]
we have to --
we have to get our Pecker jokes
in now while we can.
The guys lying about nonexistent
voter fraud are the ones
who've committed actual fraud.
A grifter President
put a grifter in charge
of the Justice Department,
and is trying to get
another grifter elected
to the Senate.
But like the grifter he is,
Trump always abandons
the people who serve him,
whether it's Attorney General,
his personal fixer,
or even someone as close to him
like his own...
-Pecker.
This has been "A Closer Look."
[ Cheers and applause ]